This is a pattern I use throughout my studies. I’ll identify something that I need to improve on, such as
how I get started, or how I handle a tool. Then I’ll devise an exercise that simply focuses on that. When I
was learning to paint I struggled with going outside to paint trees. I sat down and looked at the problems,
and the first thing I identified was I simply dragged too much stuff with me. I also kept all my things in
random places around my apartment. I purchased a specific bag just for my painting supplies and kept
that bag ready to go. When I wanted to paint outside I grabbed this bag and walked to one of a few
places, rather than planning elaborate painting hikes. I practiced just grabbing my bag, walking to one of
two places, setting up, doing a painting, then walking home until the process was smooth as silk. After
that I watched Bob Ross to figure out how to paint trees because that guy can crank out some trees.

Not everything you do is an inneficiency, so be careful not to eliminate something simply because it takes
up time. There are little rituals and personal habits that can get your brain ready to work. The trick is to
not eliminate those but to instead make them easier to do before you start working.
You should also be getting a concept of time management during this first part of the book. Setting a
time limit of 45 minutes will make it very clear that you have no idea how long you take to do something.
With only 45 minutes you can’t waste 30 getting your vim windows just right and organizing the perfect
directory structure then crafting a brand new algorithm for sorting. You have to be frugal in what you
implement and in what order you do the work.
A good way to tackle a project is to start with the simplest thing you can get up and running first. In the
find example that was probably getting a file by a glob pattern. Someone with poor time management
skills will immediately try to get the -exec argument working to prove they are an awesome coder, but
-exec can’t work without -name and is much more difficult to implement. The way to decide is to tell
yourself that you want something you can use when you’re done. If 45 minutes passes and you can use
-exec but can’t get files into it then how can you use it? If the same time passes and you’ve got a way
to list files matching a name then you’ve done it. You have something in 45 minutes.
Keep working your list of blockers and evaluating how well you do with your start, but now start looking
at time management. Strategize what you are going to implement so that if you ran out of time you’d
have something you can use. They don’t have to be complete features, but two useable features is better
than 10 that don’t work at all because you forgot the simplest thing they all need. Or worse, 10 that don’t
work because you bounced around half-implementing all of them so none of them work.

Remember, your body is a part of you, and the idea that your mind is all that matters is completely false.
Treating your body like it’s just useless junk will make your brain work less efficiently and keep you from
doing this work comfortably for a long period of time. I recommend you take time to do some kind of
physical health–related activity as often as you can. That can be yoga, dance, walking, hiking, or going
to the gym. Anything to keep your body healthy so your mind can work without interference.
Think about it this way: If your body is hurt and constantly in discomfort, or weak from abuse, then your
brain has to waste cycles on keeping track of it and telling you. If you can keep your body a well-oiled,
maintained machine, then your brain doesn’t have to worry about it.
Finally, if you are someone whose body doesn’t work like other people’s, then do the best you can.
Nobody is telling you that you have to have my body to be a programmer. One of the great things about
coding is anyone can do it even if their physical manifestation can’t do many other things. The point is
don’t let programming make your situation worse. Stay healthy.
